# Equivalence Partitioning

Equivalence Partitioning (EP) divides data into equivalence partitions based on the expectation that all the elements of a given partition are to be **processed in the same way** by the test object. Test one value -> detect defect -> should be detected by any other: 
- so 1 per partition is sufficient.

Can be identified for:
- inputs,
- outputs, 
- configuration items,
- internal values,
- time-related values, and
- interface parameters. 

The partitions may be 
- continuous or 
- discrete, 
- ordered or 
- unordered, 
- finite or 
- infinite. 
- must not overlap
- must not an empty set

Containing:
- valid values is called a valid partition.
- invalid values is called an invalid partition, interpreted as those that
    - should be ignored or 
    - rejected by the test object 
    - no processing is defined

`100% = all partitions using 1 value`
In EP, the **coverage items** are the equivalence partitions. To achieve 100% coverage with this test technique, test cases must exercise all identified partitions (including invalid partitions) by covering each partition at least once. 

`Coverage% = tested EP / total number of EP`

Many test items include multiple **sets of partitions**, coverage
criterion for multiple sets of partitions is called **Each Choice coverage** and requires test cases to exercise each partition from each set of partitions at least once.
`Coverage% = sum of tested EP in each set / total number of all EP in all sets`
- does not take into account combinations of partitions

Examples: <br>
Variable: PIN code length<br>
• The partition “length correct” - four-digit PINs<br>
• The partition “length incorrect” - PINs with length other than 4<br>
Variable: Number of different digits<br>
• The partition “number of different digits correct” - PINs with at least two different digits<br>
• The partition “number of different digits incorrect” - PINs with all digits being the same<br>

