Commonly used experience-based test techniques discussed in the following sections are:
- Error guessing
    - Fault attack -> lists of possible failures
- Exploratory testing
    - Exploratory testing uses test charters
- Checklist-based testing
    - Checklist-based testing -> lists of possible test conditions

**Test charters** are concise, written descriptions used primarily in exploratory testing to guide and focus the tester's efforts. They define the scope and objectives of a testing session.

## Error Guessing (Fault attacks)

Error guessing is a test technique used to anticipate the occurrence of errors, defects, and failures, based
on the tester’s knowledge, including:
- How the application has worked in the past
- The types of errors the developers tend to make and the types of defects that result from these errors
- The types of failures that have occurred in other, similar applications

In general, 
- errors, 
- defects and 
- failures 

may be related to: 
-input (e.g., 
    - correct input not accepted, 
    - parameters wrong or missing), 
- output (e.g., 
    - wrong format, 
    - wrong result), 
    - logic (e.g., 
        - missing cases, 
        - wrong operator), 
    - computation (e.g., 
        - incorrect operand, 
        - wrong computation), 
    - interfaces (e.g., 
        - parameter mismatch, 
        - incompatible types), or 
    - data (e.g., 
        - incorrect initialization, 
        - wrong type).
        
**Fault attacks** are a way to implement error guessing. 

This test technique requires the tester to 
- create or 
- acquire 

a list of 

- possible errors, 
- defects and failures, 

and to 
- design tests that will identify defects associated with the errors, 
- expose the defects, or 
- cause the failures. 

These lists can be built based on 
- experience, 
- defect and failure data, or 
- from common knowledge about why software fails.

# Exploratory Testing

In exploratory testing, tests are **simultaneously** 
- designed, 
- executed, and 
- evaluated while the tester learns about the test object. 

The testing is used to learn more about the **test object**, to 
- explore it more deeply with focused tests, and to
- create tests for untested areas.

In a **session-based approach**, exploratory testing is performed 
- within a defined time box. 

The tester uses a test charter containing test objectives to guide the testing. The test session is usually followed by a debriefing that involves a discussion between the tester and stakeholders interested in the test results of the test session. In this approach test objectives may be treated as **high-level test conditions**. 

Coverage items are identified and exercised during the test session. The tester may use **test session sheets** to document the steps followed and the discoveries made.
Exploratory testing is useful when there are few or inadequate specifications or there is **significant time pressure** on the testing. Exploratory testing is also useful to complement other more formal test techniques. 

Exploratory testing will be more effective if the **tester is**
- experienced, 
- has domain knowledge and 
- has a high degree of essential skills, like 
    - analytical skills, 
    - curiosity and 
    - creativeness

Exploratory testing can incorporate the use of other test techniques (e.g., equivalence partitioning)

# Checklist-Based Testing

In checklist-based testing, a tester 
- designs, 
- implements, and 
- executes tests **to cover test conditions** from a checklist. 

Checklists can be built based on 
- experience, 
- knowledge about what is important for the user, or an 
- understanding of 
    - why and 
    - how software fails. 

Checklists should NOT contain:
- items that can be checked **automatically**, 
- items better suited as entry criteria, 
- exit criteria, or 
- items that are too general

Checklist items are often phrased in the **form of a question**. 
It should be possible to check each item 
- separately and 
- directly. 

These items may refer to 
- requirements, 
- graphical interface properties, 
- quality characteristics or 
- other forms of test conditions. 

Checklists can be created to support various test types, including 
- functional and 
- non-functional testing (e.g., 10 heuristics for usability testing).

Some checklist entries may gradually become less effective over time because the developers will learn to avoid making the same errors. New entries may also need to be added to reflect newly found high severity defects. Therefore, checklists should be regularly updated based on defect analysis. 

However, care should be taken to **avoid letting the checklist become too long**.

In the absence of detailed test cases, checklist-based testing can provide guidelines and some degree of consistency for the testing. If the checklists are high-level, some variability in the actual testing is likely to occur, resulting in potentially greater coverage but less repeatability.